---
title: I am blocked!
tags: 
  - blog
  - thinking   
---

## June 15 
I recently started a C++ course because I know the concepts of Object-Oriented Programming. However, it is a bit difficult for me. Some topics are easy, and I get tired quickly, but the new concepts take time to learn. It is a contradiction, I think, but I am making a big effort to be disciplined and learn everything quickly and well.

## June 18
I am recording a couple of videos to upload to YouTube. It is a significant challenge for me because I don’t like taking pictures or videos. It is very uncomfortable for me, as an old-school nerd who grew up in internet forums like Taringa, bak.com, and using resources like Encarta and Wikipedia.
I was tired of the C++ course, but I need to create another source of income because I don’t have a formal job and am living off my investments and savings.

## June 20 
I post a couple of videos in youeube related to fix the Zonestar Z8p control encoder and how to soldering pins of a black phill board from WeAct.

## June 21
The Udemy courses are good, but I get bored after a couple of hours. I am tired, but I need discipline.

## June 22
Well, I am advancing with my course, but the boredom was killing me. I procrastinated for a couple of hours, but a thought started to circle in my mind. Can I compile a C/C++ AVR project in Linux? I hadn't done it without Atmel Studio (the last project I did was before Microchip bought Atmel). After reading some posts, watching a few videos, and checking the plugins in Visual Studio Code, I found the answer... I can do it, and I did it! It only cost me 4 hours of my life, haha.    
Right now, it's 4:00 am. I'm going to sleep.

Well it is 6pm I will start to do my C++ course...
## June 23
1. Nothing wrong with me!   
2. Nothing wrong with me!   
3. ...   

